# TreeCloud
TreeCloud standalone application.

## Description

TreeCloud is a tool for visualizing a text in form of phylogenetic tree, where branches reflect semantic distance between words of the text.
TreeCloud was originally developped by [Philippe Gambette](https://github.com/PhilippeGambette/treecloud). 
This version of TreeCloud TreeCloud uses an algorithm created by Philippe Gambette 
to compute distances between the words, NeighborJoining algorithm (Saitou, Nei 1987) 
for computing the tree from distances, and EqualAngle algorithm for building the tree. 
The tree is renderred in SVG format using Apache Batik SVG Toolkit. 
You can export the tree into several formats: Newick, SVG, PDF, JPEG.

### Import types
With this software it is possible to generate a semantic tree from:
1) **Plain text.** In this case the cooccurrences are computed using sliding window.
2) **Concordance.** This assumes that in the imported file each line represents a separated part of a text and is not linked with
other lines. 
3) **Unitex concordance.** File `concord.html` generated by [Unitex/GramLab](http://unitexgramlab.org/) - an open source, cross-platform, multilingual, lexicon- 
and grammar-based corpus processing suite.
The TreeCloud is implemented in java and does not depend on external software. 

### Methods for computing semantic distance
Methods for computing semantic distance are based on ***Evert (2005).** The Statistics of Word Cooccurrences: Word Pairs and Collocations.*
1) Chi-squared
2) Jaccard
3) Log-likelihood
4) Odds ratio
5) Point-wise mutual information
6) Z-score

### Sliding window parameters
In case of visualizing a plain text, you can choose the width and step of the sliding window (counted in number of words).

### Color modes
There are three different modes of coloring the tree. You can change the mode in the `Edit` menu of the frame where the tree is
renderred. 
1) Red & Blue
2) Grayscale
3) Target

The latter mode shows the correlation of a word with other words on the tree. In order to use this mode you need to type the word
of your interest into the `Target word:` field of the initial frame. 

## How to Build

```
git clone https://github.com/aleksandrachasch/treecloud
cd treecloud
ant jar
```

## Caveats

Words on a generated tree might overlap each other. It is possible to drag them to convenient places, but in case of exporting the tree it
will remain with overlapped words.
If you use the built executable `Treecloud.jar`, please do not move it from the original directory as it depends on the `lib` directory.

## Issues

Please feel free to report about any bugs, or request features for this project through [Issues](https://github.com/aleksandrachasch/treecloud/issues).
